---
layout: post
title: "Advice: Understanding exhaustion and rest"
date: 2021-12-06 12:28:08 -0500
categories: advice
---

In this post, I will try out a sort of advice column. Here's a [question from Quora](https://www.quora.com/unanswered/What-shall-I-do-if-I-am-feeling-so-exhausted-but-I-don-t-want-to-rest) that has not received any answers yet:

### What shall I do if I am feeling so exhausted but I don’t want to rest?

You say you are exhausted but don't want to rest. In their most general meanings, 'rest' is the *only* treatment for 'exhaustion'. So perhaps you have particular ideas about one or the other that appears incompatible with the states of 'exhaustion' and 'rest' that you are experiencing.

For instance, if 'rest' means 'sleep' to you, you can certainly be exhausted but not desire sleep. Conversely, if 'exhausted' means 'sleepy', and you are not ready to go to sleep yet, most other forms of rest may be unappealing.

Without knowing what you mean by these terms, it is difficult to say what you should do. But I encourage you to broaden your ideas of what it means to be 'exhausted' and what it means to 'rest'.

If you can better understand the nature and cause of your exhaustion, you might find a more descriptive label for it that leads to a solution. Are you sleepy, tired, or wiped? Burnt out, depressed, or drained? Bored, lethargic, or stuck? What will make you feel better depends on what you are feeling.

Once you better understand how you're feeling, consider forms of rest that might not be obvious. Even if you are not ready for sleep or feel too agitated or bored to lie down, there are lots of activities that can be restful: enjoying a show, movie, book, or game; engaging with a hobby or puzzle; hanging out with family and friends; or exercising or playing a sport.

Try to specify what you mean by 'exhausted' and then offer yourself the kind of rest that mathes it.